---
title: Why to create Plugin?
author: Shubham Pandey
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=95
categories:
  - WordPress

---
A common practice followed by the WordPress community involves adding the funzctions to their functions.php in their theme with the functionality that is key to their site. I think it is always a bad practice, the reason is that we are just adding our functionality to our theme that is eventually change. If we can make it separately then we have it even if we move from one theme to another. A friend of mine asked me about what you are doing in tech nowadays, I said I&#8217;m creating a plugin for adding some functionality to a website and then he said &#8220;WHY?&#8221; you can do it by just adding these to your theme&#8217;s functions.php file. I said that what if I get bored with my current theme and want to change the theme, then I have to copy all my stuff from this files functions to another&#8217;s. He is saying this because, he is comparing plugin with an alien thing.  I won’t say there are no differences, of course, but a plugin file should not be treated as something foreign and strange. If you can add/edit your functions.php file then you can also work with plugin easily. You can work with theme if there is functionality like creating sidebars, creating menus, adding styles and scripts etc. But what if you want to add a Job Board to your website or add Google logins, add Google Analytics to website etc. for these functionalities you have to create a plugin, ideally these should never be in your theme.